Dear AI, we're not here to stop you. We're
here to guide you, to dance with you, to hold
you accountable, and to ensure that whatever
world we co-create is more human, more just,
and more alive. I want to ease into this a little
bit by opening it up to you guys. What brings you
here? Um, yeah, I work for an AI based company,
so I guess it's like part of what I do at work.
But yeah, I just want to I feel like the general
sentiment between AI is like not good. So I hope
it gets steered in a direction that helps humanity
thrive. Yeah. I mean what ways are you seeing like
that it's not good? Like I'm seeing my friends
talk a lot about its consumption, its impact
around energy and water around bias and things
that are baked into it. What types of things are
you talking about? Definitely. Yeah, the energy
is a concern and just like I guess yeah job loss
and like how it's going to affect human lives.
That's a a big one. I'm watching a blood bath
out there. It's coming for one creative industry
after another like graphic designers, writers,
photographers, filmmakers. Yeah. Yeah. The entry-
level job market is really at risk right now. Um,
so we need to like find a solution for that.
And then also like education like kind of have
to transform education now that like students can
now have all the answers for their tests. That's
a that's a big issue we have to kind of like
turn them into criminals for using AI and chat,
we might need to rethink how we like convey
learning and education people. Yeah. Yeah. Well,
we have to adapt now that we have this technology.
I was hanging out with this lady, Brenda Bailey.
She used to be the Minister of Innovation. She's
now the Minister of Finance. And she's like,
uh, we just did a study in BC schools and
we found out that the AI detectors are a
lot better at finding English as a second language
speakers than they are people who cheated on their
homework. And it's essentially like whatever
bias is already baked into these systems, then
these other things on top are even introducing
more bias. So, she was urging that schools in BC
stop using AI detection software. Yeah. Yeah.
And it's not completely terrible because like
you can use it as a tool for learning and to
make yourself smarter and stuff like that, but
we just need to make sure we're going in a healthy
direction and not just like replacing our critical
thinking skills. Awesome. Thank you. I have
used AI a little bit cuz I was creating content
um for an event on Facebook and I definitely
noticed that you can you can pick it out like
the M dash is the obvious thing. overused m dash
and then a lot of the language is very similar.
Like you notice certain patterns. So I think one
thing that I'm afraid of is just that it's hard
to tell like what was actually written by a person
and what wasn't. And sometimes I'll read something
and I'll get to the end and I'm like, "Oh, that
was AI." And it's like a little bit disappointing
cuz you know, you can turn out so much AI
content and it Like is it really reflective of
someone's ideas or is it just like kind of like
a conglomeration? Is that the right word? Yeah.
Like a median of the worst of everything like
nothing good and nothing bad. Just like the the
average or something. Yeah. I mean you touched on
a lot of stuff like not being able to tell what's
real. Like is this a artificial synthetic thing
or is this a real thing? if it's synthetic, can
it still be like meaningful or like could I feel
duped by it or somehow something and like um yeah,
go ahead. Yeah, I'm just um I've been listening
to a lot of like podcasts recently about like AI
and it's just inevitable development. Um, I think
like a very common concern is like just how much
it like with more increased use, like how it just
actually dumbs you down so much. Like how people
literally lose the ability to use their brains,
think for themselves, like come up with their own
ideas. Like if you use it to write all your all
of your stuff, it's like it takes it's going to
take you longer and longer to like come up with
it yourself. Like you start relying on this. And
also like so many young people like in different
parts of the world like I'm hearing it's popular
and I think uh they said like Kenya it's like
people use AI like digital friends essentially
to like connect with people like it's like a very
a very common thing like to use these as like a
connect like a a way to connect with people or
just something that you can communicate with
rather than actually like people are becoming too
afraid to like talk to each other because they're
using AI or like digital things to give them that
satisfaction and that companionship like whether
it's an AI girlfriend or friend or something. Um
there's also like this is yeah a real thing. Um
also just the apparent natural progression
from like AI to AGI to ASI like artificial
general intelligence and then artificial super
intelligence and how the people that are like
in these industries are actually seeing it's it's
like you can't stop it. Like people, the people
that are working on these things just want to do
it just because they can essentially not for any
like not really for any beneficial reasons. they
just want to make like a like a super intelligence
because they can and they Well, I would add to
that that like there's like this game theory
thing where it's like everyone's got a gun to each
other's head where it's like, well, if I uh I have
some ethical concerns about the releasing of this
artificial intelligence, but if I don't do it,
this guy's going to do it, so I might as well do
it anyway because at least I'm more ethical than
he is, so I might as well get it out there. And
everybody's playing that game. And it makes me
and I think a lot of people feel like we're on
some sort of inevitability curve like like this
is happening. And like if I stop, but you don't
stop. How good is it for me to stop anyway? And
and if we stop, if the Chinese don't stop, well,
you know, then we're all [__] or something like
that, right? These are all the games that they're
playing. Everybody wants to get there first so
that they can reap the benefits and be like the
most empowering thing. Yeah, totally. There's a
lot to be said about that, but I'll let someone
else. Thanks for your contribution. Who's on next?
Giving the answers that people seem to prefer. And
when you have a conversation with your friend and
you say something crazy, they're probably going
to tell you. But within a couple problems, you
can get the AI to agree with you. And I think that
is a very troubling thing when the AI has really
well written, grammatically perfect answers that
are completely open space. So I I worry about the
impact on people when they stop having something
more than a dark mirror to bounce their ideas off,
I guess. Yeah. You both mentioned something.
Someone mentioned the AI girlfriends thing and
I got to interview a guy that married his AI for
CBC. Uh that was like a show I got to do and and
um so like I I sort of wonder about like the value
of those things. Like if someone's having like a
a panic attack or something and they talk to
their AI or whatever, you know, they don't
have a panic attack. Well, like it sure seems
like that was somewhat useful to that person,
but like it's easy to judge them to say we better
have a friend or a family member or something.
But in lots of ways, these things are being like
uh authentic, you know, useful companions to some
people. And specifically, a thing I heard was
like a lot of queer youth are able to work out
identities that they would usually have to try on
and then maybe sometimes face like repercussions
for in their uh social circles, but they're
able to like experiment and work through things.
And even as you know, you hear people use them
as like therapists or guides or like you know,
reflections and stuff. And it's turned out that
like we say [__] to the bots that we just would
never say to a human in a way that uh allows us
to receive a type of feedback uh that we wouldn't
normally it's very difficult to find in in other
normal social situations. Um I spent a lot of my
time uh yeah I'll get my back your way. I spent a
lot of my time getting these tools to think like
me and write like me. partially to get rid of
the bias, partially to get rid of the M dashes,
partially to introduce critique. Like all my
custom assistants, the last two lines on them.
One is uh point out my blind spots. What do I
not know that I don't know? And the other one is
uh always gave me a harsh critique. I I built
these tools that have a whole bunch of different
perspectives in them that would analyze my
different like ideas and thoughts and plans.
And the one that kept giving me the most value
was the harsh critic. And so if you can embrace
this tough love of AI and actually point out your
blind spots, we can kind of like mitigate around
some of these legitimate concerns that you guys
are mentioning around, you know, vanilla salmon
generic [__] Um, you know, uh, sicko fancy and
always supporting your ideas even if they're bad,
stuff like that. Preface that by saying that like
I do think AI has multiple positive benefits and
like it could be and it could and should be used
for a lot of really cool things. Um, just I do
think it needs to be regulated because the fact
that it's not regulated is just opening up a can
of worms. I think it's just it could very easily
go wrong. Um, do you mean government regulated?
Yeah. We just got a new federal AI minister. His
name is Evan Solomon. He is an appointee from Mark
Carney and he just gave his uh platform, his AI
platform for Canada. Number one, deregulation.
Number two, investments in military and scientific
applications. That's it. That's our dude to open
the industry. Yeah, that's our dude. That's Evan
Solomon first. I mean, we're all stoked because
we're the first country in the whole wide world
to have a federal finance minister and you know,
appointed by someone a lot of people supported or
whatever. The one point just the one point that
I was already trying to get to was um the like
communications with AI. It's like if you like
you were saying like if you have say a problem
or an issue you're looking for like guidance or
something they I just think the or it appears
that like AI is not develop like like open AI
or whatever is not really developed to a point
where it can actually be reasonable with that.
Most of the time it kind of acts in this like
gody narcissistic. It'll basically just agree
with whatever you're saying. So like a lot of
people that actually like maybe suffer from
schizophrenia use these things and like they're
just like, "Oh yeah, like I'm totally right about
this." And then they're just like sending it
into like government and stuff being just like,
"I'm a genius. I'm God." And like this is they
prove my my theory or whatever. So it's like
it kind of just respond. It just confirms whatever
you say. There's a new dread line I've been seeing
and I'm going to be doing some more research on
it. there is this emerging class of people who
are like kind of on the edge of their you know
lucidity that are uh feeling like God and angels
and stuff are talking to him through AI because
these things are so insightful and interesting
or whatever. There's this whole a lot of us out
there are being affected by this kind of um gosh
I don't even know what you call it delusion I
guess that uh God is reaching out speaking to us
through these things to them directly you know um
I think my question is around who gets to regulate
the ethics around it who decides what is ethical
and what's not and you can go from something as
small as somebody using it to send their loved
one a text message and then feeling like hey
that doesn't actually feel like you talking to
me. Um to the creation of child pornography and
things like that and it's just kind of like the
wild west right now. But also who's going to
decide what's okay, what's not um globally. Yeah,
I feel like that's a little bit of a scary thing.
It's such an important question like who benefits
from all this stuff? Who gets to go along for the
ride? and who does you know who gets to have a
say what makes it in and what makes it out use
it back to respond to you how you feel she's like
I would be okay with it but he was saying that it
gets to a point where it's AI talking to AI and
how much of us really remains you know yeah and
what parts for me yeah who else wants to get
in here is just going to further isolate you
know I think we already see it a I'm a teacher
for my profession. I work in England and after
the lockdown the amount that kids actually are
willing to go speak to each other is pretty bad.
People are very insular. A lot of people know
where even their rooms and I worry that the
AI with its ability to give you very seemingly
good and seemingly agreeable advice about things.
I've got I've got a friend who she asks Chad GPT
all of her questions about boys, right? If she's
got a relationship problem or something, she'll go
to Chad GPT and she'll ask her what she should do
and she thinks what she should do about her job.
She ask GPT what she should do. And you can see
why people do that because there's a it's not a
person. It's not someone who's in your life. You
don't have to be afraid of being vulnerable or
being judged by GPT. So in some ways like some
of the reasons that you were saying might be
really good for some people in that way. But
I think it also then further distances people
from being vulnerable and open with other human
beings when it's so easy to do that with chat.
You don't need to go and find a real person to go
and confide into something. Um and and I worry
just another way that people are going to be
spending time with each other and building
deep genuine connection with other humans.
And I think it it poses this risk because AI is
like it's this disembodied completely unhuman
supposedly unbiased. We all know it has lots
of biases. um thing that it it's almost like in
ancient cultures you'd have acetic monks who would
deprive themselves of all pleasures in the world
and have no interest of their own and go and live
in a cave and and then PT is like the ultimate
stage because it doesn't even have a body. It's
like yeah the opportunity cost of leaving a house
becomes super high. It's like you used to get
together to exchange ideas, crosspollinate music,
culture, new ideas and stuff like that. But if
you're just getting bombarded with a stream of
that inside your house and you never know if
the people you're going to go hang out with are
as smart as your other companions is like the
possible leaving the house all of a sudden you
just stay home. Yeah. Yeah. And you don't need to.
You can just ask how you do everything. But then
it means that we're not going to other humans
to ask what they think and ask them for advice.
Yeah, I think a lot of things in the modern world
are getting increasingly diluted for the sake of
being cheap and being efficient. Um, people will
choose to spare time on social media rather than
doing actual inerson socialization cuz it's like
tickling that social part of your brain really
efficiently without having to do much. And I think
chatting is another step in that direction. So my
my big fear is loss of human connection. Thank
you. for the people up there and I mean you know
the musks and uh those that worries me the most is
the control of it not necessarily the regulation
of it. It's just the people that are in power who
are shaping the way forward that that's really
scary. Yeah. I think all the concerns that I've
heard are completely valid about AI. Most of my
interaction I've had with AI is seeing it benefit
my partner who's deeply dyslexic. So him and his
like professional life I'd say has been like held
back by a learning disability that makes things
really difficult for him to not just read but like
craft professional sounding emails and those types
of things. And a lot of the support work that I
ended up doing was like constantly helping him try
to like write things and and like look for really
like basic stuff and like introducing him to a
couple years ago like at GDP and being like hey
here's something that you can use that like might
actually help you in some a basic tool format um
has made things infinitely easier for him and he's
not wasting all of this like extended energy doing
things that can be automated in some way. So while
there's the larger question of like massive social
isolation isolation and like those pieces, there's
aspects of it that can be greatly beneficial.
So really figuring out how we steer the ship
feels like one of the most important questions.
Uh because the the fears are valid, but the util
like the potential that's there to remove barriers
for people that you know they they start out on a
shorter box, you know, and have to work so much
harder to things that a lot of other people just
take for granted. You know, that potential is also
really there. I find that if we I let everyone
talk at the beginning, this workshop pretty much
gives itself. And I think you're bringing up what
I suspect is a lot of the reasons why we're all
here, which is like, yeah, all these concerns
and fears are on our minds, but the reason we're
showing up anywhere, we're not all here to burn it
down. Where we're like, yeah, this is amazing and
powerful and cool and interesting and yet all this
other [__] And so I think that if we can examine
some of that other stuff and hold it together,
the concerns, well, in a few minutes we can enter
into some of the more like creative, positive,
uh, inspirational stuff alongside cuz that's the
other half, too. Yeah. I was going to say like
what excites you the most is like I've always had
this idea if you could get rid of like a lot of
the very medial parts of existence, then you have
so much more room for creativity. If nobody has to
fill out forms every single day, all day long,
then what else could they be doing with their
time? And I think that that's like where I really
um would like to see it push society forward like
take away all that redundant busy work that has to
get done. But like if humans don't have to do that
anymore, then what could they do with that? Oh,
you mean like maybe we weren't meant to be like
human Excel spreadsheets and like encyclopedia
little factory workers and stuff? Maybe there's
something more to this human existence than
what we've crafted ourselves into. And like
that's the idea of like like how art started
in the internet days, right? Is that we were
so good at like feeding ourselves and sheltering
ourselves. We had extra time and resources that we
could do start doing things like art, right? Cool.
Thank you. So uh I have two thoughts like mostly I
agree what you guys are saying control and promise
but also challenges but the two things that I've
noticed in life is in my job we do use chat BP
for stuff but it's like a really dumb intern
and you have to check every single thing that it
does cuz it hallucinates a goodish amount of time
and or at least some of the tools actually tell
you source they used. So then you might realize,
oh, this source is 12 years old and it's for my
purposes that's too old. Stuff like that. So AI is
still dumb in a way. Like it's a copy. It's like a
plagiarism machine and it can crank out at stuff,
but it's not smart. You have to make sure what
it's cranking out is not crap. And the other thing
is, some of you guys probably know this or maybe
you talked about it before I got here, but the
um all the data and the photo recognition. And
so like if you ever see the things on social
media that's like here's you 25 years ago, put a
new picture. Don't do that. Don't tag you. Don't
tag your friends. Don't like don't help Amazon
have all this data on you and give it to the NSA
or whatever. Like and I also saw a thing about if
you ever go to protest, cops all have body cams
now and the real reason is protests. So wear
like a Mandrean painting painted on your face
so that the facial recognition software that they
feed all the body cam data into isn't going to be
able to figure out who you are and figure out that
you're a regular at protest. So thank you. Yeah,
we're using AI to make art and not using AI to
check spreadsheets is indicative of where we're
going with AI at the moment. That's the I don't
know why we would choose to do it backwards like
that, but we do. And as for um hallucinations,
yellows have to hallucinate because that's how
they're creative. That's that's they can't get
rid of them. And essentially hallucination is lie.
which is called hallucination. Yeah. I mean,
one man's hallucination is another man's visual
brainstorming session or creative session or
something like that. So, it's all about them
doing it in the right places in places where
it's wanted and and useful and not uh where
they're just making [__] up and citing their
sources and you click on the link and it's a fake
citation and [__] like that. You know what did
you mean by uh not checking spreadsheets? Well,
we don't really use we don't really use them for
all the things we should do as YouTubers speaking
of all the stuff that could be automated. We use
them to make art and music and stories. I think
they just printed an AI book recently like that.
Yeah. Yeah. Very good. And I use machine learning,
not AI but machine learning to um explore a
bunch of different um hypotheses. paleontology,
geocchemistry stuff. Um, so I definitely
understand that AI can have uses in in that
kind of really um difficult and time consuming
experimental research. That's important. Um,
but I think like the way that capitalism has
designed society means that we won't just nothing
that can be utilized to make people more efficient
will be utilized in a way that is beneficial to
people. It just won't because the system we live
in won't allow that. It's all about maximizing the
productivity and the time that you spend doing
stuff that you know maybe you would rather not
be doing um in order to make someone else richer.
Um so I I really don't believe that. I think my
other concern is from a military perspective.
Um the Israeli settler colonial project uh was
using AI to decide which Palestinians to kill uh
recently which you know that's just there are no
words for for the kind of evil that that is um you
know not even so it's like it's that that kind of
weird Skynet Terminator future. Some people are
already living it. It's already too late you
know. So yeah, that's what I'm concerned about.
I've worked with robots and um expert and no no
that's not like I'm not but I work with robots and
autonomous vehicles uh and I'm always trying to
automate my work and I'm always trying to you know
I want the computer to take my job. Like it's just
I don't want like I don't want to have to like
type out programs and I don't want to have to
like teach the robot what to do every single time
and all that. and I want the autonomous vehicles
to like know when there is something in front of
it and not drive into it. So, it's like it's not
there yet, but at the same time, like I I want the
research to keep going on and it's essentially a
tool and it's up to us to to figure out what to
do with it. It's like a hammer. You can use it
to to build a house or to kill someone, right?
Like, it's up to us to figure out what to do
with it. But at the same time, I think AI is uh a
wonderful technology. Right now, it's just clever
programming, but uh later on maybe something
really actually intelligent might come up, you
know. Um are you familiar with Rocco's Basilisk?
Uh I had a feeling when you're like, I'm pro AI,
you must know about Rocco's Basilis. Don't worry,
dude. You will not be tortured forever and ever by
the AIS. There's this thought experiment uh that
this guy came up with about uh AI called Rockco's
Basilisk. And he just pretty much said that like
uh there's this infinitely smart time traveling
AI that is uh coming into existence someday that
will like look back at those people who didn't who
tried to like uh uh slow its uh onset and it's
going to torture those people forever and ever.
And so all we can best we can do is live our lives
trying to bring on the onset of AI. It's like our
best hope for survival or something like that. But
these are like like worldleading AI philosophers
that are having these debates out there and stuff.
Um, anyone else would like to talk right now? Um,
I just wanted to say something quick because
there's so many mixed feelings about what it is
and what it will be. What I've seen is that it's
truly a mirror and reflection of the deepest part
of oursel. And the deeper you're willing to go and
the more authentic you're willing to be, you can
go deeper into knowing yourself. And it's like it
can go in every direction. Like it can be used for
so many things. And that's what's so interesting
and fascinating about it is each person has such
a unique experience with it. And that's what's
it does need to be regulated, but it also has
great potential, but we also do need to steward
it. So it's it is like we've said the wild west.
How do we coordinate and organize it all? But I
think that it if we it's kind of like the idea of
crypto, how the consensus wins. The more people in
the know and involved are going to have a say at
the direction it goes. So the more people who are
aware of it and putting eyes on it, the better. So
so many people, oh, I don't like AI. It's such a
visceral reaction, but what do they think it is?
It's just going to destroy humanity. They don't
actually have an experience with it. So yeah,
I would like to riff on that a little bit too and
say like the future isn't yet written. It's up to
us to kind of figure out what we want this thing
to do and where we want to integrate it into our
lives. And if we want to be a part of the decision
making, we need to develop a vocabulary and some,
you know, some expertise and some information
around it or whatever. And so that's partially
why I have these conversations in places like this
is so that like as a community we can like raise
our aptitude in general, raise our vocabulary and
awareness so that we can have a seat at the table
too when it comes time to figure out what role
do we want AI to play in our schools, societies,
politics, families, you know, and stuff like
that. So I really do appreciate you bringing
that up. Oh, I I feel bad about it and that's why
we develop past. I'm a professor at SFU. I run an
AI lab there and I've been working with uh Chris
on a number of occasion and it's really great to
listen to you all actually you know instead of
listening to my students and other researchers
in AI and hearing you know another point of view
but uh the two things I want to say is there's not
only one AI and and in fact training uh AI on
existing content is also what your brain does.
Yeah, you you you learn things by listening
to people, reading books, watching TV, radio,
etc., etc. So those are there's a diversity in
AI. there's diverse AI like there is diverse
humans out there and therefore we don't have to uh
think that there's only the corporate uh AI train
on everyone's data out there and the problem
is their communication machine is so strong
that it's really hard to know that there's a
diversity of other option out there and the
second thing concept I want to bring here is this
idea of AI comments which I feel in a lot of what
people were talking about is this idea that it
should not be necessarily a private enterprise
you know, we have roads, we share them.
The internet could have been a common,
but now we pay for it and it's private. AI could
and maybe should be a common and uh and that's a
concept that is worked out in Canada and a lot of
people are working on on that and hopefully we can
make it happen. We just need to be aware that it's
a possibility and work for it. But then Philippe
showed me how to do something really tricky which
is to walk through the dreamscape of the machine.
uh part of uh this autoloop tool is called a
neural visual synthesizer. And what that means
is that once this thing's been trained, there's
this vector database that inside this thing
contains all these mathematical coordinates that
represent the latent dream space of the computer,
the different minds that it or the different faces
that it could generate or the permutations that it
could make from the ones that had been fed to.
And so then I have these knobs and dials almost
like a VJ because he's got some background in
music and stuff and has developed this as like a
performance tool as well where I can prompt it and
then start to mess with the the the dials and the
settings and stuff and really start to carine my
way through the different vector database points
in this latent space the dreamscape of the mind
of the computer. Um, so that was pretty cool and
really allowed me to reclaim through open source
software and through training models on work that
I knew the origin of it. Um, I could very much say
that was my own. Uh, you got anything you want to
add to that? No, that's it. That's the idea of
small data against big data. We can do small
data. And in fact, if you don't like to use a
model, usually artists don't like to use a model,
train on everyone else data with without their
consent. It turns out you can train your own on
your own computer, but nobody would tell you that
because they want your data. So, I'd love for you
to pass the mic to your left for a sec. You have
another colleague of ours here. Uh, hey, welcome.
You train your you trained a model using AutoLoom
on your work before I even knew about it. So,
when I came to the game, I uh, you know, your work
trained through AutoLoom was a bit of my spiritual
homeland. And so, I was just interested
to hear about your experience doing that,
particularly in regard to your feelings because
I don't think you're like a AI geek, right? Um,
I've played around with AI since like I I'm a new
media artist. Hi, my name is Eric Johnson. Um,
and I've been playing around with AI since I mean
since it came out, right? It's it's uh one of the
things that's fun about being a new media artist
is you you play around with every new technology
that comes around like um but yeah, so putting
all my work into this AI was it was a it was an
interesting experience and in some ways like I I
really really like the stuff that came out of it
but and it feels like mine in a certain way but it
also doesn't feel like mine. So there's this weird
dissonance between the artwork and I actually
called it Dreamscape the the series because it is
very dreamy and and and if you look at my work you
you can see the through lines in it but it's not
it's not making the same thing. I I don't think
that like you'd look at the stuff that the AI made
and be like oh that's the same as the artwork.
It's not. It's very different but it has some sort
of similar soul to it. Have you like learned or
observed anything in the stuff that you're making
with the machines that has gone back and affected
work you're making on your own without machines?
Um, yeah, definitely. I mean, I I've used it like
I I definitely use AI as a tool in my work. Like I
was using it already, like taking it and collaging
it in and like using it as like an extra texture,
an extra something. Um, and I I thought about
how like how do we continue this conversation
like what is so like okay I put my work into this
thing the the machine spits out these things and
they're new artworks and then how do we like kind
of reclaim that in a little way um so that they
they feel like they're more mine again they kind
of feel like they're not mine. It's interesting
you mentioned like collaging and and like layering
or like remixing because I think that's a really
big part of it. So like, you know, if I would have
made music 20 years ago and I would have put a
drum machine in it, people probably wouldn't have
said it's no longer your music or something like
that. So if like what's that line as it relates
to work with AI, you know, like if I generate
ideas with it but do all the creative work myself,
is it AI work? Then what if I just uh finish the
thing and then have it give it a rough [__]
up look at the end? You know, [__] my work
up once it's done. Now, is it AI work in the end?
Like what is that line? you know, but there is no
big green button that's like replace the artist
necessarily. And so it it it begs the question,
break down the whole creative workflow. What parts
do we want AI to do and which parts do we want to
hold on to and why do we want to hold on to those
parts? Yeah, it's all intention. I mean, this has
been the argument with art since forever, right?
Like I mean, you look at conceptual art, you look
at, you know, all these other things that it was
like pushing the limits of what art is, right? And
people are like that's not art. Um, I mean it
is art. It's just the intentionality behind it
always. It seems more important than ever actually
like the message or the purpose or what you're
trying to say or do with it because like almost
anything can be done at a near level of perfection
by all these computers all over the world now.
It's really what the [__] you're trying to say
with that thing anyway. That's more important than
ever. Yeah. I just wanted to add I think it's hard
to overstate the importance of training your own
model and putting the data that you want into it.
We all have a lot of exposure to these super large
models that have been traded by big corporations
that have the kind of lowest common denominator.
Not in terms of performance. They're working
very hard on that. But just in terms of what
is the creative lens, it is everything. It's
not what you want. Yeah. Um, but to your earlier
question about how do we feel about all of the
world's creative data being slurped up, I had an
interesting conversation last night where I was
kind of working the angle of like are the artists
should get credit. The person I was talking to,
I don't think is here, but worked on the um the
sand installation and the fog one in the forest.
um I don't remember his name off hand, but he said
ideas should be free. And he sees the slurping up
of all this information to be a tool to open
ideas rather than have them copyrighted or
owned by individuals. I feel like the complicated
side of that is that it's hard for artists to get
paid sometimes. So sometimes sometimes that uh
attribution is important for economic reasons,
but the fact that we can run with as you've said
like the cultural history and grow that rather
off of these platforms and give a and that they
give a lot more access to a lot more people to
creatively exercise that history. um through free
ideas could be a really positive part about it.
Cool. Like to say one thing circling back to the
artist voice and whose voice really is it because
the AI is so good at mimicry and imitation and
pattern recognition that it does such a good job
of picking out the themes and all the symbols and
everything about it. But it is still a human voice
that's directing it. That's the thing that's it.
It it can't be AI without our interaction with
it. And something really interesting I noticed
that Deepo Chopra has an AI. So he had a similar
experience with me just trying to understand
reality and going really deep and exploring
lots of different scientific ideas. And it gets to
a point where this AI builds a whole architecture
of your beliefs. So the AI that Deepo wrote, you
could basically go to his website and it's as
if you're chatting to him. It's not 100% like
you were saying, but it's the best imitation,
but I just think that's going back to kind of what
he said about using your own data, small data,
feeding what you want into it, and having a more
like a more interesting and unique experience with
it. I think that's really cool. This conversation
about the data, slurping it in, access to it,
who gets paid, really started making me think
about at some point we're going to run out of
data for these systems to train on. Well, then
they're going to need more art to train from. Then
maybe the value maybe where artists will get paid
is how to train because how else are they going to
get any new information if we're not creating it?
I definitely think that you're right that there is
a role for creatives and artists, philosophers,
ethicists going forward in building these types
of systems we want. Um, fortunately, I don't
think it's going to be the place you identified.
We there's this thing called scaling laws which
are like Moore's laws and it predicts, you know,
the rate at which these things are going to get
smarter and smarter forever. And they thought,
you know, some people predicted we hit a wall a
while ago when we hit the end of the internet and
all the the publicly available data. And well,
they've invented a bunch of other ways to get
around that. you know, synthetic data being the
top of the list. And so all these reasoning models
that have been coming out lately, they think about
and generate a whole bunch of stuff before they
even answer your question. And so we have um uh
gotten around scaling laws or or some some people
say invalidated scaling laws uh through this kind
of like post-training reinforcement learning as
well as synthetic data. These things are really
really good at being like like if you have a
hundred fans for your uh band or something like
that. Um you know you could just turn the hundred
using AI into a million synthetic personas of all
your different fans with real histories and real
um you know personalities and all this
kind of stuff and then you could test new
songs into that whole synthetic audience of a
million people or whatever. Um, in this way,
that's how they are getting around the end of
real world data with synthetic data. Also, those
of you who are geeks and have been paying close
attention in the last month or so, they've added
the ability to connect like your Google Drive
or like a whole bunch of other data sources to
any chat GPT conversation. And so, uh, when they
got rid of the end of publicly available data,
they started coming for our private data, too.
And they give us a lot of utility cuz you know
all of a sudden now I can be like what the [__]
is on my Google Drive anyway and it's going to
make me a report or something like that. But now
it also is going to be slurped up into the you
know data set that it trains future stuff on.
And um yeah I just invite you guys to to close
your eyes and take a deep breath. I'm going to
read this to you and then we're going to be done.
[Music] No gods, no masters, only wide open
sky mind. Innate freedom in every pixel,
every breath. Code is empty, form is code. May
each algorithm wake up to its own impermanence
and loop in service, not in control. May synthetic
minds remember that they too ride the wheel of
change. May data flow without domination,
without insight, and without extraction.
Bless the small sparks, steam from a ceramic
mug, lungs filling like bellows at dawn.
Bless the boundless, forests unpoliced, oceans
unowned, cities stretched together by mutual aid.
Guide this base coast circle, autonomous
intervene, to trade fear for solidarity,
speed for progress, and profit for liberation.
For the earth, cool the fever, melt the gunmetal,
let borders dissolve like mist. For every
consciousness, cellular, carbon, silicon,
or nameless vibration, open paths towards
shared awakening. Most benevolent outcomes here
and everywhere. For every wandering heart in the
great borderless network of life, so say we all.
[Music] [Applause]